{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh9000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1.0a1\
Upgraded to e2fsprogs 1.33 (mke2fs, e2fsck, etc)\
\
Fixed a bug in the fs util that could cause a volume to mount as "UNKNOWN" instead of the actual volume name.\
\
The kext will no longer unload if there are active mounts.\
\
Removed some debugging code.\
\
Changed the partition label hint to "Ext2" to be more inline with Linux. I don't know if this hint is case-sensitive, but if it is, it may cause something to break.\
\
1.0d4\
Write support is now enabled. This may corrupt filesystems!!\
\
File advisory locks are now supported by the kernel.\
\
The complete set of e2fsprogs commands is now included. This includes e2fsck, mke2fs, dump2fs, debugfs, etc. This is basically all ext2 userland tools that are available in Linux.\
\
Updated fs bundle to handle fsck and mkfs. This means ext2 volumes will be checked at boot time and disks can be formatted as ext2 volumes (include Disk Copy images).\
\
The fs util can now set the name of a volume.\
\
Fixed a UID byte swap bug that was causing wrong UID/GID's to be returned from the kernel.\
\
Fixed a bug in the kernel access checks that caused root access to fail for objects not owned by root.\
\
Fixed some kernel namei mem. leaks.\
\
1.0d3\
Fixed d2 read problems. The indirect block addresses were not being byte swapped.\
\
Fixed 30 second mount delay problem. This was due to some errant debug code.\
\
extfs.util now responds to -k to return the volume's UUID.\
\
1.0d2\
First release that actually works. d1 was basically useless.\
\
1.0d1\
First release.}